You said little earlier that
to be enlightened and
to maintain the body
one would have to understand
all the mechanics of the body.
Is that a possibility for us
to be aware and understand all those possibilities?
though all those mechanics?
It definitely is a possibility.
Not that it is not possible.
It is just…
we are still going through hoops
with fundamental aspects of life,
with basic aspects of life.
Then you can't pay the kind of attention that
these things need.
If you,
if you have to
know the intricacies of life,
how life is made, if you want to know
rather let me use the word creation,
it won't yield
unless you pay it
the necessary attention,
absolute attention.
This is the reason why people think
it is long and arduous journey,
need not be.
It is very long and arduous because…
see suppose…
you drove from Detroit?
Was it very long and arduous?
Hum?
No, you are sitting in a 21st century car,
what the hell?
In ten hours time you are here.
It is neither long nor arduous, ok? (Laughs)
Suppose
your car is made like this,
that its engine
works intermittently,
every minute it's on,
every minute it's off.
Would it be very long and arduous?
Hum?
That's all.
That's all it is.
Your attention is on and off,
on and off, on and off,
so it's very long and arduous.
If your attention was just on,
it's just a short journey.
It is not even a journey actually.
Opening your eyes to life
is not really a journey.
But to understand the mechanics of
how creation is,
yes, a certain amount of focus and….
One thing is realization,
a little bit of learning also,
not a little bit, quite a bit of learning also
is involved in it.
But without the necessary realization,
learning won't mean anything.
So we are waiting for the realization.
If not the ultimate realization
at least some level of realization that
you are not going through hoops
for simple, basic aspects of life.
If you stop going through hoops
for tiny things in life,
then
it would be…
maybe time
to look at
how to learn a few things.
I have
made attempts to set a few people
on that.
I thought all this should not be lost.
Right now, I am sort of resigned to that
anyway this will be lost with me.
If people realize that's enough,
we will set up procedures and methods and
energy investments
to help people towards that realization.
But all this knowing,
I…,
there was a time when I
worked hard with people
to get them there but
what I see is,
even back in India it's so difficult to get people
to work hard toward these things
because this needs hard work,
lot of hard work.
If you're
really longing to know, it's not hard;
everything is fine with you.
When there is no such longing,
it feels like torture.
And initially
you go into it willingly, after you,
after some time you think I'm torturing you.
This has happened again and again.
So
I have not given up given up,
but generally I'm ok if,
if nobody gets there
in terms of knowing.
It's ok
as long as people
are on the path of realization.
If they are not really striving to know
the mechanics of creation,
it's alright.
I have….
I mean I'm not given up, given up
but I am ok
because
I have to work really hard
with them first of all.
Unless people are willing to work hard enough,
trying to work hard with them
just becomes ridiculous,
you know.
Once I am on,
I don't know how to stop.
That's my problem.
If I sit here and if,
if I see
little fire in somebody's eyes
I forget that you need to go to the bathroom,
you need to eat because
I forget that I need to go to the bathroom or eat.
So I forget about your bladder also.
When I have forgotten about mine,
what's the problem with yours? (All Laugh)
So
once I am on to something, I'm,
I'm on
but I don't see people are like that.
People are on and off,
on and off, on and off.
So
it becomes difficult to work.
So we are just working towards realization.
If people attain
towards that liberation,
that's good enough.
A few people we are still working;
I am not saying there aren't anybody working.
There're some people working on those things
but
the rate at which they are going,
they will need lot of time.
I don't think we have that much time on hands.
They will need lots of time
at the pace at which they are going.
You can see,
if somebody is reading
you know,
studying and learning at a certain pace,
you can say ok in 8 years time
he can become a doctor.
If he is reading at a certain pace,
you can say ok,
in 50 years time he can become a doctor.
Yes?
Or if he is reading at a certain pace,
you can say ok,
in a few lifetimes he will become a doctor.
This is just like that,
after all it's physiology
on a deeper scale,
that's all.
So if you are willing to learn at a certain pace
then we know how long it's going to take.
'No, no, no, I'm doing.'
Its fine you are doing but
I don't want to… I just have a life term.
I don't have a 300 year sentence.
I just have a life sentence here. (Laughs)
I am not a Agasthiya or something. (All Laugh)
How do we speed up the process,
because the compulsions of the body and mind
keep getting in the way.
How do we take care of the body & mind
so they don’t become hurdles?
How to take care of your body?
Don't make it important.
Or start with your mind.
What you think is not important.
What you feel is not important.
Make that happen,
let me see.
Tomorrow is Easter;
Good Friday.
It's a good day to crucify you.
Hum?
Yes?
Crucifixion means they fix somebody's body,
right?
So it's a good day to fix your body.
You don't make it important;
it just hangs there
on the cross, its ok,
let it just hang there.
Keep your mind...
First crucify your mind.
Let it just hang there.
Whatever it says,
if you have or recognize somebody as an utter idiot,
what do you do?
What do you do?
Suppose he happens to be your brother, or your sister,
or your father, or your husband, ok...
(All Laugh)
I'm trying to make,
relate to things properly.
(All Laugh)
What do you do?
See, you just let him be around.
Whatever he says you don't
stop him from speaking,
but anyway you don't take it seriously.
Yes?
That's what you do with your mind.
Let him say whatever he says,
you know he is a idiot.
So,
but he is a, you know,
you have a relationship with him.
You have a relationship with him
So,
you let him say whatever he wants to say,
not paying any attention to him.
Just the way he,
you know... (Laughs)
So you do that to your mind,
that's crucifixion for your mind.
He just hangs there;
you don't pay any attention to it.
Do that to your body later.
First do it to your mind.
Body is a easier business
compared to mind.
First do that to your mind.
What you think and
what you feel is not important,
just do that to yourself, let me see.
Because
what you think and feel is just a
psychological reality.
Only because you are too caught up
in the psychological reality,
you're missing the whole reality.
All the time
you're living within the psychological reality
of who you are,
not in the existential, isn't it?
So when will you look beyond the psychological?
If you think it's important,
you'll never look beyond that,
isn't it?
Because naturally your attention flows in the direction
of whatever you hold as important,
isn't it so?
Yes?
Whatever you hold as important your attention
naturally flows in that direction.
Right now
your thought and your emotion is important,
so naturally your whole attention is right there.
But that is a psychological reality;
that has nothing to do with the existential.
So if you want to
move into the existential reality...
to put it very simply,
you just have to see that I am a fool.
Whatever
my mind says,
whatever my emotion says,
it has nothing to do with reality.
It has no
greater relevance to life.
It's just chattering away with nonsense
that you have gathered from somewhere else,
isn't it?
If you understand this,
don't pay any attention to it
and don't expect anybody else to pay attention to it.
Yes.
See
the best way to insult you right now you know,
is
you are talking to me.
I look at the sky.
You are saying something important;
you are articulating your thought
but I don't pay any attention.
This is the worst insult, isn't it?
Why?
Because your thought and emotion is so important,
isn't it?
It is so...
I am looking at something so big, the sky,
but that is not how it is.
Your thought and emotion is bigger than the sky.
Isn't it so?
Right now it is. Isn't it so?
The way you think and the way you feel is far bigger
than the sky
or the existence itself.
Isn't it so?
That is a
very distorted perception of life;
it has to change.
Do it today, let's see.
What you think,
what you feel,
your thought and your emotion is of no consequence.
Make it like that for yourself.
You will see suddenly life will start
bursting around you.
This is all we did
in that...
what's that? By b b b b....
Hum?
What?
BSP.
This is what we did.
Whatever you think,
whatever you feel, your stories,
your nonsense are not important.
Not at all important.
That's all that was done to you and
suddenly life started bursting within you,
isn't it?
Do that, this is a good Thursday. (All Laugh)